

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html class="writer-html5" lang="en" data-content_root="../">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
  <title>Developer Meeting 2021-11-31 &mdash; orsopy 1.2.2 documentation</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css?v=03e43079" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/css/theme.css?v=e59714d7" />

  
    <link rel="shortcut icon" href="../_static/ORSO_Logo_bear.svg"/>
      <script src="../_static/jquery.js?v=5d32c60e"></script>
      <script src="../_static/_sphinx_javascript_frameworks_compat.js?v=2cd50e6c"></script>
      <script src="../_static/documentation_options.js?v=fd7cadf9"></script>
      <script src="../_static/doctools.js?v=9bcbadda"></script>
      <script src="../_static/sphinx_highlight.js?v=dc90522c"></script>
    <script src="../_static/js/theme.js"></script>
    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../search.html" /> 
</head>

<body class="wy-body-for-nav"> 
  <div class="wy-grid-for-nav">
    <nav data-toggle="wy-nav-shift" class="wy-nav-side">
      <div class="wy-side-scroll">
        <div class="wy-side-nav-search" >

          
          
          <a href="../index.html" class="icon icon-home">
            orsopy
          </a>
<div role="search">
  <form id="rtd-search-form" class="wy-form" action="../search.html" method="get">
    <input type="text" name="q" placeholder="Search docs" aria-label="Search docs" />
    <input type="hidden" name="check_keywords" value="yes" />
    <input type="hidden" name="area" value="default" />
  </form>
</div>
        </div><div class="wy-menu wy-menu-vertical" data-spy="affix" role="navigation" aria-label="Navigation menu">
              <p class="caption" role="heading"><span class="caption-text">Contents:</span></p>
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../installation.html">Installation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../usage.html">Usage</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../modules.html">Modules</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../contributing.html">Contributing</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../authors.html">Credits</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../history.html">History</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../documents.html">Documents</a></li>
</ul>

        </div>
      </div>
    </nav>

    <section data-toggle="wy-nav-shift" class="wy-nav-content-wrap"><nav class="wy-nav-top" aria-label="Mobile navigation menu" >
          <i data-toggle="wy-nav-top" class="fa fa-bars"></i>
          <a href="../index.html">orsopy</a>
      </nav>

      <div class="wy-nav-content">
        <div class="rst-content">
          <div role="navigation" aria-label="Page navigation">
  <ul class="wy-breadcrumbs">
      <li><a href="../index.html" class="icon icon-home" aria-label="Home"></a></li>
      <li class="breadcrumb-item active">Developer Meeting 2021-11-31</li>
      <li class="wy-breadcrumbs-aside">
            <a href="../_sources/developer_minutes/meeting_2021_11_30.rst.txt" rel="nofollow"> View page source</a>
      </li>
  </ul>
  <hr/>
</div>
          <div role="main" class="document" itemscope="itemscope" itemtype="http://schema.org/Article">
           <div itemprop="articleBody">
             
  <section id="developer-meeting-2021-11-31">
<h1>Developer Meeting 2021-11-31<a class="headerlink" href="#developer-meeting-2021-11-31" title="Link to this heading"></a></h1>
<p><strong>Present</strong>: Andrew Caruana (AC), Artur Glavic (AG),  Brian Maranville (BM), Andrew McCluskey (minutes author, AM)), and Andrew Nelson (AN).</p>
<p><strong>Apologies</strong>: Max Skoda and Jochen Stahn (sound not working on zoom).</p>
<section id="minutes">
<h2>Minutes<a class="headerlink" href="#minutes" title="Link to this heading"></a></h2>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li><p>Should we bring <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">slddb</span></code> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/reflectivity/slddb">slddb link</a>) into the main <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> package and if so how should this be achieved?</p></li>
</ol>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>The original purpose of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> is a place for all code related to ORSO packages, not just to serve the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fileio</span></code> functionality.
However, it is important to be careful in future when selecting what should and should not be included in the package.</p></li>
<li><p>There was a discussion regarding the differences between <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">slddb</span></code> and the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">periodictable</span></code> package.
AG noted that the primary purpose of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">slddb</span></code> is to be a database for scattering length densities which is the maiin distinction.
Additionally, AG identified the value to packaging <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">slddb</span></code> within <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> that analysis packages would only require a single dependency to access the benefits of both.</p></li>
<li><p>The importance of not adding a database to the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> package was raised by BM, however, AG pointed out that the Python package for accessing the database as already well divorced from the database.
This removed BM’s original worries regarding merging the projects.</p></li>
<li><p>AN commented that it is important to be clear on the process that would change the value of a member of the database.
It was suggested that the documentation on this process which is present on the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">slddb</span></code> web interface <a class="reference external" href="https://slddb.esss.dk/slddb/about">about</a> page, could be mirrored in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> documentation.</p></li>
<li><p>It was broadly agreed that bringing the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">slddb</span></code> python code into <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> was a good idea and it should be done by adding the package as a second submodule, i.e. <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy.slddb</span></code>.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ol class="arabic simple" start="2">
<li><p>Should there be a standard formatting that we agree to in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> and if so what should the rules be?</p></li>
</ol>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>AN introduced the motivation for collaborative projects towards having a common code style (via formatting rules).</p></li>
<li><p>It was broadly agreed that a common style is beneficial, however, AG would like to see it applied in a soft fashion, i.e. a pull request does not fail for the wrong style (this could be offputting to new contributors).</p></li>
<li><p>AN and AM both felt strongly that incorrectly formatted could should not be able to be merged, however, agree that it should be clear <strong>why</strong> the tests have failed.</p></li>
<li><p>AC and AG both noted that there should be documentation explaining how to get autoformatter working in common IDEs (i.e. PyCharm and VSCode).</p></li>
<li><p>There was agreement that we can try using <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">black</span></code> autoformatting with a line length of 120.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ol class="arabic simple" start="3">
<li><p>How should we manage releases?</p></li>
</ol>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>There was an initial clarification of the difference between versions of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> the Python package and the ORSO file format.
It was made clear that these are distinct, i.e. a version number bump in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> is not the same as a change to the file format version.</p></li>
<li><p>Initially there was the suggestion of releasing with every PR, however it was worried that this might have a saturation effect.</p></li>
<li><p>AM suggested that when a given developer feel that a new micro-version increment is necessary, they should open a PR containing solely a bump to the version number and a complete update of the CHANGELOG.
Then the discussion in this PR will focus on (1) if a new release is necessary and (2) if the CHANGELOG is upto date.
This approach will also allow new features that someone would like in a given release (i.e. in a another PR that is in review) to be expedited if necessary.</p></li>
<li><p>This process was generally seen as acceptable and should be implemented, and more importantly documented.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ol class="arabic simple" start="4">
<li><p>General governance</p></li>
</ol>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>AM raised the question of if we should include code review and approval requirements on pull requests.
It was felt that currently this should not be introduced, as so far we are working in a rather dynamic fashion and this could be limited, furthermore we have been polite so far with asking for code review when it is necessary.
However, it was accepted that once stable, code review should be required.</p></li>
<li><p>AN raised the issue of “best practice” for contributing (i.e. forking the repo and working on a feature branch there).
This is currently mentioned in the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/reflectivity/orsopy/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst">contributing guidelines</a> but these should be improved to include more information, i.e. AC would like an easy reminder for “how to catch up a fork”.</p></li>
<li><p>BM asked about who was an admin on the PyPI page, currently this is just AM and AG.
However, anyone is welcome.</p></li>
<li><p>BM also raised (after the fact, <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/reflectivity/orsopy/pull/63">https://github.com/reflectivity/orsopy/pull/63</a>) the importance of not using <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">force</span> <span class="pre">push</span></code> except in extraordinary circumstances.
This has been supported by AN and should be included in the contributing guidelines.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
<section id="actions">
<h2>Actions<a class="headerlink" href="#actions" title="Link to this heading"></a></h2>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Move the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">slddb</span></code> code to the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> repository (AG).</p></li>
<li><p>Mirror the relevant documentation for finding problems in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">slddb</span></code> in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> documentation (AG).</p></li>
<li><p>Add configuration for <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">black</span></code> to the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> repository (AM)</p></li>
<li><p>Add format checking to the CI scripts, ideally in a way that it is clear how to resolve problems (AM)</p></li>
<li><p>Add documentation to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> making clear the different between <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">orsopy</span></code> version and the file format version.</p></li>
<li><p>Document process associated with releases (AM)</p></li>
<li><p>Improving the contributing guidelines to be more accessible to new developers and link from readthedocs page (AM)</p></li>
<li><p>Contact AM or AG if you want to be an admin on the PyPI page (all)</p></li>
<li><p>Add a comment about not using <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">force</span> <span class="pre">push</span></code> in the contributing guidelines.</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
</section>


           </div>
          </div>
          <footer>

  <hr/>

  <div role="contentinfo">
    <p>&#169; Copyright 2024, ORSO.</p>
  </div>

  Built with <a href="https://www.sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> using a
    <a href="https://github.com/readthedocs/sphinx_rtd_theme">theme</a>
    provided by <a href="https://readthedocs.org">Read the Docs</a>.
   

</footer>
        </div>
      </div>
    </section>
  </div>
  <script>
      jQuery(function () {
          SphinxRtdTheme.Navigation.enable(true);
      });
  </script> 

</body>
</html>